In our application, there's really
kinda four distinct domains.
A lot of times, these will
manifest in the form of features.
So it's very common that
features kind of wrap
around specific kind of domain boundaries.
And so for us,
we have a user domain which has
a conceptually distinct set of tasks and
things they do.
We have challenges, flashcards, and notes.
And the idea is that when
you're building an application,
you wanna properly segment
your domains in a way that
they're not dependent on each other.
At the same time, they can still
communicate in a meaningful way.
And one of the things I've been doing,
quite a bit of microservices
over the last two years and
the concept of every microservice
has its own data source.
The first time I heard that,
I'm like, what are you talking about?
That's madness.
But then I realized that when you have
a single database with a bunch of data
models in there and somebody needs to
make a change in one place, you can
have a just an incredibly disruptive
effect across the entire database.
Now, a separate database per endpoint
is there's a cost that comes with it.
There's a really good microservices book,
there's a honeycomb and
a beat or something on it.
And I think it's Sam Newman, whoever,
he spends a lot of time talking about,
there are trade-offs to do this.
Enterprise is that there's
a certain scale where that's when
it makes sense to go on that direction.
But even though maybe we're not in the
enterprise, we can still be enterprising.
And so with that,
we have our kind of four domains.
And the idea is that within the domains
that we are going to build an app or
apps that capture specific
parts of the domain,
but we're going to try
to do it in a way where
each app in each feature slice is
uncoupled from the other feature.
And this is really important that
you're gonna have a user's team
that's working on the user's feature and
they wanna deploy the app or
they wanna deploy their endpoint.
Well, they can do that and
they don't have to go ask the challenges
team if it's okay to do that.
And so I think the big takeaway
here is I want to just,
Encourage everybody to think about their
domain and then start to think about,
in a very disciplined way, what it
would take to keep those separated.
And this is my goal by the end of
the day is if we understood how to
spin up a feature alongside other features
without blowing the whole thing up or
it's completely independent decoupled but
you can still operate in a meaningful way,
that would be a big win for me.
So the goal today is that
we understand how to build
a feature within a larger application.
One thing that we have to talk about,
and this is incredibly important.
You have to have a data contract.
So first and foremost, it comes to
having an understanding of the domain.
And then you must agree
on a data contract or
a data model in which everybody
is going to adhere to.
Because what happens, and I don't know
if anybody has experienced this, but
you have the frontend team that they're
working at a certain cadence, and
then you have the backend team and they're
working at a much different cadence.
Usually, what I've seen is you have one
frontend team working on a feature and
you have a backend team
working on a dozen API's.
And it's very, very common that you have
one side or the other sitting around and
saying, well, we can't build
this because we're waiting for
the API, or
we can't do this because of this.
When you have a data contract, you
decouple the frontend from the backend,
because everybody is in agreement
about what is coming across the wire.
And so one of the things
we're gonna see today is once
you're in agreement on the data contract,
then the frontend team could
mock out data to that contract.
The backend team,
they know what their target is.
And I've been in situations
where we had a contract,
we built it out, the frontend.
And when API was ready because
it was to the contract,
you just flip the switch,
point it to the live endpoint and
it just works because you're
programming to a contract.
Usually what I do, and
I'm not gonna go get the whiteboard and
pull it out here and
we're not gonna do that.
But you'll sit on the whiteboard and
you'll endeavor to understand the business
domain and how things communicate and
what are the events that cause
things to happen within the domain.
And for me, I usually will then translate
that Into, because Typescript or
Javascript is my native language,
I use Typescript interfaces.
But I've also seen it
done in a graphQL schema.
The point being you need to be
able to define your domain.
And so within this page,
we have interfaces for
all of the features that before I
started building anything I sat down and
pretended I was 20 people, and I said,
if I was 20 people,
what would I want this to be?
And so we have an interface
that services a contract for
every single kinda feature in here.
So what I would like us to do
just on the outset of this,
I would like for us to think of some
entity that we can add to the domain,
and I'm gonna do workshop.
I don't know why.
It just seems relevant, I guess.
So I'm gonna do workshop, and
I'm not gonna put too
much thought into it.
But I would like for
us to come up with a domain and
then within the API interface
inside of our mono repo,
and we'll get into some of that more.
So we're kinda easing into this.
I would for
everybody to create an interface for
the entity that they chose and
it could be anything you want.
You are the entire company that you
represent your entire organization,
at least for this workshop.
But what I would like
everybody to do is if
you go into Visual Studio Code,
in the libs,
the very first folder that
you see is API interfaces and
we are going to just come up
with an additional entity.
So I decided to go with workshop, and
I haven't actually thought
through this until just now.
But one of the nice things about
programming is that [COUGH] we are,
in fact,
modeling reality in the real world.
I think the further we just
drift away from that reality,
the more problems that we run into.
And it's always amusing to me when
somebody's programming is hard.
And it's like, well,
that's because life is hard.
Reality is hard.
And you're trying to model something
that it's complex and complicated.
And so
I would just say is a little boop bonus.
Is that if you are modeling
your domain and you're like,
we're drifting away from reality,
stop and check yourself and
be like, if we keep going down this way
path, are we gonna end up creating code?
That's going to be impossible to maintain,
because it's not going to be able to
move and adapt with the business.
So with that said,
I am going to create a new interface,
and we're gonna call it Workshop, and
I'm gonna be pretty simplistic about it.
And the reason why if
you see the BaseEntity,
I just do it so that I can just
put on the ID at a top level.
Typically, I'm not a huge
fan of inheritance, but
this is one case where I think it's just
a lot easier when you're not having to see
that ID explicitly like,
okay, it's there, we get it.
So for a workshop, I'm gonna say title,
And, Description,
And what else?
When we think of workshop, let's just-
>> Date.
>> Date, yeah, so date, which I
think is a type of date, I think.
Topic, yeah, that's good.
>> Instructor.
And let's actually do instructor ID,
that way,
you can have a table of users or whatever,
and then you just drop the ID in.
And so one of the things we'll talk
about a little bit more that in Redux,
that it's really,
really important to normalize your data so
that you are working with essentially
key value pairs or entities.
Because it's 0, 0,
like the log 0, whatever that is.
Look up when you have a dictionary and
you have the key,
you just can go straight to not
having to diverse the collection.
And so I was already on board with that,
then you start getting into microservices
and you realize that
everything is normalized and
then split out and
you're just sharing ideas around.
So I think this is probably pretty good.
And-
>> Excuse me.
>> Yes.
>> Instructor ID,
is it okay to be number instead
of string in data type?
>> So it's actually like a UU ID, which-
>> A combination of-
>> Yeah, so
you really want it to be alphanumeric.
And unless you're doing
something really simplistic,
strict numbers are pretty limited.
So I learned that the hard way.
>> So how about were you wanted to tie
the instructor ID to a user entity?
At this point, are you worried about OG?
Is there an ID field and
user all because of BaseEntity?
>> That was a good question.
Do we have something we can
actually kind of pin onto?
And because we're extending BaseEntity,
we have that ID.
So this is why I'm not
a fan of inheritance.
Is because there's something
happening that's not obvious,
is that it creates a certain
level of indirection.
And inheritance is, I think,
a rather egregious form of coupling.
The idea is that we want to favor
composition over inheritance.
This is, I think, one concession
that I make just because it's there.
>> It's actually a real common pattern,
so yeah.
>> Very good question.
So all right, I think this is pretty good.
Fortunately, we're not
doing heart surgery.
And we're not even building pacemakers.
Or if we get this wrong,
then you know what happens at this point?
We tear it down and we start over.
So has anybody heard of the concept
of immutable infrastructure?
That if you have a A Kubernetes
cluster out in the cloud and
you need to make an update, well,
you're not gonna SSH into that cluster and
fix it, you're just going to tear that
cluster down and redeploy a new one.
And I think that as engineers,
when we adopt that same mindset of,
let's do something, let's get feedback,
and then let's tear it down and
keep iterating.
This is why I love CLIs,
this is why I love generators,
is because it gives us the opportunity
to iterate very, very quickly.